An Uav is an aircraft that flies without a human on-board the aircraft.
It is also
defined as a reusable, unmanned vehicle capable of controlled, sustained,
level flight and powered by a jet or reciprocating engine. One UAV can
do a lot of things for human beings. The greatest uses of UAV are in
military applications. It is also used in a small but growing number of
civil applications.



The abbreviation UAV has been expanded in some cases to
UAVs (unmanned-aircraft vehicle system). The reason why it has
expanded is to reflect the fact that these are not just aircraft, but systems,
including ground stations and other elements.



UAVs can be used in a lot of different areas. They can be used for
remote sensing, transport, scientific research, armed attacks, search and
rescue.
Since UAVs are used for different kinds of missions, there is a
wide variety of UAV shapes, sizes, configurations, and characteristics.
From the figure shown in this section, some features of different types of
UAVs can be found. Range, flight altitude, endurance, maximum weights
are all decisive factors. Different quantities of the arguments decide the
usage of the UAVs



Wireless communication is the transfer of information over a
distance without the use of enhanced electrical conductors or "wires". The
distances involved may be short (a few meters as in television remote
control) or long (thousands or millions of kilometers for radio
communications). Wireless communication is generally considered to be
a branch of telecommunications.



Since UAV can move quickly and flexibly, it is absolutely
impossible to do the communication by using wire when they are flying.
Even using wireless techniques, the flying attitude and the speed of UAV
should be considered. However, there is also a number of advantages
when UAV using wireless networking.

1. UAVs can provide on-demand, high-quality communication
due to line-of-sight signal propagation.

2. UAVs can be sensing and data fusion nodes dynamically deployable in the region of interest.

3. UAVs can tailor their flight paths to enhance the quality of wireless networking and communication.

4. UAVs can themselves carry and forward huge amounts of data.



Factors affecting UAVs’ Communication:

There are some factors which should be considered when UAVs
communicate. One of them is spectrum efficiency. It refers to the
information rate that can be transmitted over a given bandwidth in a
specific communication system. As known, study about bandwidth is
very important when it comes to data transmissions. A higher data rate
can provide data transmission in a shorter time.
Another important factor is endurance. When UAVs are flying in
the sky, they need energy to maintain their flight. The energy is a limited
resource, especially for small UAVs. When UAVs transmit data, range
and data rate are dependent upon the available/used energy in the aircraft.
In military application field, there are also several other subjects
which could be focused on, such as: relay capability, data security, among
others.



Requirements Specifications:

By using the wireless technique and considering some influential
factors and realistic conditions, the goal is to accomplish the
communication among small UAVs, which are called “mini” UAVs. The
range for a mini UAV is less than 10km, and the flight attitude is less than
300 meters. It is believed that the energy can endure for about 2 hours.
The maximum weight at which the mini can be loaded is 30kg.
The transmit data is chosen to be text-based, for example,
mission commands or flight status data. When another UAV receives a
command, it sends back an acknowledge. The speed of the UAV
supposed to be around 10m/s (maximum). It is known that the distance is
inversely proportional to the data rate. For good performance, the data
rate is needed to be higher than 100Kps.
One device operating, based on the wireless technique, would be
chosen for simulating communication. In the next chapter, after a series
of introductions, a comparison and evaluation will be undertaken.
Through the evaluation, a solution will be proposed to choose the proper
protocol and the device to be used in the practical part of the work.





